For anyone who has followed my channel for
any amount of time, and certainly anyone who
follows me on Twitter or watches my live streams,
it won’t come as any shock that Harry Potter
was a formative piece of media for me.
And I also might be one of the cisgender men
who is most enraged by Harry Potter’s author,
JK Rowling, and her… presumably…
recent fall into Trans Exclusionary Radical
Feminism.
She has spent the last several years honing
her cruceatus curse on the trans community
around the globe.
But especially trans women in the UK.
She doesn’t often speak of trans men but
don’t worry, when she does, her talking
points are just as backward as when she talks
about trans women.
The situation has grown ever more fraught
since her first ‘middle-aged moment’ tweets
in June of 2020.
Now this is the point in the video when someone
will jump down to the comments with the: “Tell
me what she said that’s transphobic.
Tell me what she’s done.
None of you people can seem to tell me.”
I’ve seen so many comments like this that
it's literally become a joke.
But luckily people actually HAVE cataloged
what she’s done.
And I could leave links in the description
to articles that line these out, but we all
know they won’t read them, so forgive me
for using Abby Gardner’s breakdown from
glamour.com as my jumping off point here.
But first, I want to say that this video is
brought to you by my patrons.
YouTube has been in a mood lately and isn’t
even notifying subscribers who click the bell
when a new video comes out, so the views and
Adsense for this channel have sucked lately.
So its really thanks to our patrons that we
can keep this channel going.
Without them we would have had to stop a long
time.
So if you like the videos we make, and have
the means, even a dollar or two a month, I
would be so grateful if you signed up for
our Patreon, linked in the description.
Patrons gain access to videos early, plus
behind the scenes clips, a weekly podcast,
movie watch a long parties, not-so-youtube-safe
versions of videos, and a lot more.
So if you’re able to support the channel
this way, I couldn’t thank you enough.
And if you’re not able to, which is very
understandable in this economy, likes, comments
and shares go a long long way.
Now back to Joanne.
On June 6 of the cursed year of 2020, Joanne
tweeted out an article from devex.com calling
for a more equal world post covid 19.
Specifically for people who menstruate.
She took issue with the term “People who
menstruate”, tweeting:
This is just one of the many instances of
Joanne erasing trans men and non-binary people
from her gilded little world.
Notwithstanding the massive backlash she received
after the original tweet, when she could have
thought about what she said and fixed this
whole issue before it took over so much of
our lives, she went on to elaborate on her
beliefs in a longer piece.
First of all, this is tangential to a kind
of academic gaslighting.
She’s trying to convince you that two things
are self-evident that aren’t necessarily
related.
In the fight for trans rights — nobody is
really trying to argue that sex doesn’t
exist in order to justify the existence of
GENDER.
She’s trying to gaslight gay men and women
into being on her side with the ‘there’s
no same sex attraction’ bit.
Guess what, Joanne, you can be gay and still
be attracted to trans or non-binary people.
I know, we must all be drinking crazy juice.
But as a very much confirmed gay man if someone
told me I couldn’t be attracted to Laith
Ashley because he’s trans, I’d tell them
to sod off.
Second of all!
“Empathetic to trans people… because they’re
vulnerable in the same way as women.”
Trans women are women, Joanne.
They don’t share a few things in common
with women.
They don’t just happen to look like women.
They are women.
She continued:
Trans women’s lives have also been shaped
by being women.
Ask any trans woman how much she’s gone
through to be accepted as a woman by even
a fraction of the population.
If that process doesn’t shape the way a
person exists, I don’t know what does.
On June 10, 2020 Joanne published an essay
length blog on her website called “TERF
Wars”.
Now I’m not going to break down that tirade
because I enjoy having a modicum of sanity
left, But in the piece she defended her defense
of Maya Forstater, who Joanne said “lost
her job for what were deemed ‘transphobic’
tweets.”
This is actually incorrect.
Forstater’s contract was up for renewal
at the time and it was simply not renewed.
This happens all the time.
Whenever you sign an employment contract for
a set number of days, usually amounting to
one or two years, your employer can choose
not to renew that contract for any reason
they see fit, or for no reason at all.
But instead of taking the work experience
and finding another job, Forstater went on
a crusade that she has since turned into an
enterprise, in lieu of actually advancing
her original career.
Turns out it pays to be bigoted…
To this very day she goes around blaming every
bad thing in the world on trans people.
If you’ve got the stomach for it, go look
at her Twitter account.
It’s bonkers.
So after TERF WARS came out is when many public
figures and celebrities, including the younger
cast members of Harry Potter, came out firmly
against Joanne’s seemingly sudden lurch
into exclusionary politics.
Daniel Radcliffe and Emma Watson were the
loudest voices among them.
And this is when the Joanne simps started
up the online chants of “You wouldn’t
have anything without her!”
Essentially saying they never would have become
famous actors were it not for her choosing
them.
Not taking into account that thousands of
child actors were run through casting directors
before their faces ever appeared in front
of Joanne.
Nevermind that the Harry Potter movies may
never have become the success they did without
the charismatic young actors at the center
of them.
Them daring to disagree with her at all was
tantamount to kicking her in the mud, spitting
on her, and then running her over with a high
speed broomstick.
Also last year Tom Felton, who played Draco
Malfoy in the movies, published his autobiography,
in which he said Joanne “wasn’t part of
the filmmaking process as much as some people
might think.”
So let’s not give her too much credit for
the movies, most of which are nonsensical
if you haven't read the books anyway.
(It was probably after this that Joanne actually
head-cannoned an adult Draco Malfoy into going
around Diagon Alley Shops and vandalizing
them with messages of supporting trans rights.
She literally did that.
Look it up.
She did that.
She did.)
Another voice that got pulled into the cacophony
was Stephen King, who retweeted a tweet from
Rowling’s twitter stating that sometimes
men try to silence women with violence.
Which Is a pretty true and broadly known fact.
King has written several books about women
who are abused, either physically or psychologically,
by the men in their lives.
Rowling tweeted out a glowing message about
King thanking him for agreeing with her.
When a fan asked King what he thought about
trans rights, and he replied by saying, “Trans
women are women,” Rowling deleted the tweet
in which she praised him.
King later told an interviewer that Joanne
actually blocked him after that.
Because she’s as petty as an eighth grader.
July 5, 2020.
Rowling goes on another tweet tirade.
Pulling a tactic from the Fox News playbook:
Now, I know a fair number of trans people,
both men and women, and they all have different
transition journeys.
But one thing they all seem to have in common
is that getting the hormones and gender affirming
care they need can be like climbing mount
Everest in heels with a blindfold on.
Certainly not the first thing the doctor offers
for, like, anything, let alone gender dysphoria.
She continued by saying:
Acting like there’s an epidemic of de-transitioning
going on is dumb.
People do de-transition, its true.
Sometimes it’s for medical reasons, sometimes
its social pressure, and sometimes they really
do come to the conclusion that this isn’t
who they are.
But the amount of people who detransition,
for any reason, is a fraction of a fraction
of a fraction of the women who choose to have
their breast implants removed, or the people
who decide to have weight loss surgeries reversed.
Context is important.
And then then called into question the use
of hormones
in general.
And then Her re-tweet of this gem.
First of all, antidepressants should never
be a last resort.
If someone is horribly depressed Its safer
to medicate them while going through therapy
then having them spend months in therapy just
to never be able to medicate them because
they take their own lives.
I had a good friend in high school who was
in that situation and, sadly, he’s not here
anymore.
So watch what you say about therapy and medication.
Second, the quote “Pure laziness for those
who would rather medicate than put in the
time and effort to heal people's minds' ' really
does come across as saying unless there’s
no way to convince you that you’re not trans,
then we’ll let you have hormones.
Which sounds an AWFUL LOT like conversion
therapy to me.
Which, sadly, doesn’t shock me anymore since
the pseudonym Joanne uses to write her over-written
detective novels is the same name of the man
who created conversion therapy.
She says it’s a coincidence.
But was she really dumb enough to choose a
fake author name without googling it first?
Well, maybe, but I’ll actually give her
some credit here and say she IS smart enough
to do that.
She just chose the name on purpose.
Speaking of that psydonum.
On September 14, 2020, when early reviews
of her latest bloated, obviously editor-free
detective novel started making the rounds,
another round of controversy was triggered.
The plot of the novel centers on a detective
who is tasked with finding a cis male serial
killer who dresses as a woman in order to
stalk and kill cis women.
Now of course, trans women are not just men
in dresses.
But she seems to think they are, so it's quite
clear that she was using the doorstop sized
tome to demonize trans women as being dangerous
to cis women.
It’s easy enough to extrapolate that is
her saying that trans women are dangerous
to cis women IN GENERAL, instead of just the
special and rare instances of serial killers.
And then In August of last year she started
promoting her newest transphobia-laced detective
novel under the name of the man who created
conversion therapy, The Ink Black Heart.
In it, A YouTube-based cartoonist is doxxed,
threatened, and ultimately stabbed to death
in a cemetery.
The cartoonist's work is accused of being
racist, ableist, and drumroll please… transphobic.
In the opinion of one reviewer, the book “takes
aim” at “social justice warriors.”
But Rowling swore up and down that the book
was not based on the threats she had received
on Twitter, such as being doxxed.
If you don’t know what doxxing is, it is
“the action or process of searching for
and publishing private or identifying information
about a particular individual on the internet,
typically with malicious intent.”
But It's hard to publish identifying information
about a woman who has been in the public eye
for the last twenty years and lives in a Scottish
castle, the address of which was listed LONG
before this due to its status as a heritage
site.
So that’s the timeline of events that lead
to many people, myself included, believing
that Joanne Rowling, author of the globally
bestselling children’s fantasy book series
about a boy wizard who was raised in a closet
and grew up to become a cop… that states
that enslaved house elves actually like being
enslaved, and that everyone who wants to change
the status quo is a villain… is actually
a bit of a regressive transphobe.
Now what about the damn video game?
Full disclosure, a marketing firm working
with Avalanche Studios, the company behind
the video game Hogwarts Legacy, sent me a
review copy of the game.
Which I did attempt to play.
But maybe it needed a day one patch or something
because the review copy’s controls were
so wonky, and the voice over so disjointed
from the mouth movement that I couldn’t
play the thing for maybe 90 minutes before
giving up and playing The Last of Us remake.
So this is not a review of the game.
Which, considering they didn’t send the
game out to actual review sites who they thought
wouldn’t be kind, I’m kind of shocked
as hell that they sent it to me.
I can’t even get my favorite queer authors
to send me early reader copies of their books,
but likely the biggest game of the year gets
sent to me?
After publishing two videos and countless
live streams in which I rail against Joanne
and her broken ideology?
I feel like there’s a queer person working
at that marketing firm who was trying to sabotage
it.
If so, good for you!
I hope you’re watching.
But anyway.
For months and months before this game came
out… years, really.
The thing was announced forever ago…
people have been trying to build a boycott
of the game.
The main reason being its connection with
Rowling.
At least That’s the one all the news sites
have been running with.
“The crazy LGBTQLMNOP’s are boycotting
the wizard game for children!”
And if you’re watching the right channel,
they might even include a little tag about
grooming, because why the hell not?
But the queer community isn’t the only one
raising the warning flag when it comes to
Joanne’s work.
There are plenty of people taking off the
rose tinted glasses we’ve been wearing since
discovering the series and finding things
that are all sorts of troubling.
There aren't many characters of color in the
novels, and the ones that are there are frequently
pushed to the background and given names that
are outrageously stereotypical.
For instance, Cho Chang is a character whose
primary attributes are that she’s good at
school, and she’s Asian.
That’s basically it.
But it’s not just characters of color.
Look at Seamus Finnigan, whose portrayed as
dumb and constantly blowing things up.
Because, you know, he’s Irish.
And in case you were unaware some Irish people
would like all of Ireland to be a unified
nation and not under the thumb of England.
See, beginning in 1970, the Irish Republican
Army,, or IRA, fighting for independence,
carried out assassinations, and ambushes in
a campaign they called the “Long War.”
Oh and Bombings.
They carried out bombings as well.
You know, blowing stuff up.
And her peculiar ideas on gender are made
clearly evident by the fact that magic stairs
prohibit guys from getting to the girls' dorm
but do not prevent girls from entering into
the boys' dorm.
And It's common practice to equate physical
attractiveness with goodness, while the ugliness
of villainous characters is repeatedly emphasized.
Whether it be the over blown ugliness of the
death eaters, or Harry’s abusive aunt and
uncle respectively looking like a horse and
being morbidly obese.
And then…
there’s the Goblin bankers.
The movies created a much sharper image of
the Goblins than the books did, one that many
people identified with stereotypical Jewish
characteristics.
Physically the goblins are shown as having
huge hooked noses, and they control all the
money in the wizarding world.
Rowling has not acknowledged or apologized
for the purportedly inadvertent link despite
the fact that it has been brought up countless
times by many different people.
I’m… disinclined to say that this is errant
anti semitism on her part, and more…
negligence?
The thing is that these are almost a direct
depiction of goblins as they exist in European
folklore, either in appearance or behavior.
Poet Christina Rosetti wrote the poem: Goblin
Market, where goblins are depicted as skeezy
merchants, or perhaps are an allegory for
opium pushers.
In the books, their appearance is less important
than the attitude about them, naturally.
And as being tight for cash — at one point
in her life — I can understand that J.K.
Rowling may not want to depict bankers in
a positive light.
The movies, however, had no excuse to depict
them the way they did.
And the goblins in the parks have even LESS
of an excuse.
Now the reason why I say Rowling is guilty
of negligence is because Goblins, as a mythological
creature themselves, have roots in antisemitism.
Some stories tie the origin of goblins to
Judaism.
For instance, Cornish myths suggest that Knockers
(the Cornish form of goblins) came from the
spirits of Jews who worked in the Cornish
mines during the Middle ages.
But Because the notion that goblins being
based on the souls of Jews did not make sense
in modern society, many of these tales about
goblins did not survive the transition into
modern society.
Yet that's not the whole story of where the
goblin came from.
Rabbi Jo David said:
As
an additional piece of historical context,
throughout the Middle Ages Jews were given
the job of working as bankers, tax collectors,
and in general dealing with money because
this was considered to be a job below that
of Crusaders and landowners.
And not jobs that were Christ-like.
And of course the N*z*s used goblin-like images
to portray Jews in all of their propaganda.
So goblins are very deeply anchored in their
own history, and for many reasons, including
antisemitism, they frequently become associated
with Judaism; nonetheless, the question comes
back to purpose.
Did the author who came up with the original
story, J.K.
Rowling, intend for the goblins to have qualities
that are often associated with Jews?
Again, she hasn’t acknowledged the issue
so we don't know.
This leads to the problem with Hogwarts Legacy,
in which one of the primary villains, the
goblin Ranrok, is leading a Goblin rebellion
against the Wizarding World and collaborates
with some dark wizards to reach his goal.
In the marketing, he was featured most prominently
with a line about kidnapping the 15-year-old
player character.
And so Ranrok has been labeled as a very evident
example of antisemitism.
Because one of the biggest antisemitic tropes
used to villainize Jews is Blood Libel, or
the accusation that Jews kidnapped and murdered
non-Jews in the past in order to use their
blood in Jewish rituals.
This one common sentiment has been a main
driving factor throughout the middle ages
and modern times to target and incite violence
against the Jewish people.
Of this, Rabbi Kalev said:
The
game even has a Goblin Rebellion that takes
place in the year 1612, and it turns out that
there was a real-life massacre that occurred
against Jewish people during the 1612 Feltmilth
uprising.
This massacre was one of many pogroms, or
strategically conducted attacks, that were
carried out in predominantly Jewish neighborhoods
over the course of history.
The date seems to be too specific not to be
a reference to hate crimes committed against
Jews in the real world.
Hogwarts Legacy has, of course, sold a gazillion
copies already, and will likely end up, by
direct royalties, or further licensing agreements,
making JK Rowling richer than she already
is.
She even brags about getting royalty checks
on Twitter now.
Because, again, she’s as petty as an eighth
grader.
I say ‘8th grader’ figuratively.
I’m sure many ankle-biters have more emotional
maturity than this woman is displaying.
Seeing how most of her tweeting and award-winning,
grammatically unstructured essay-ing is equivalent
to ’I’m rubber and you’re glue.’
.
But even with the success of the game making
her richer… does that even matter?
Should we even care?
Now what I mean by that is…
Rowling already has more money than god.
She certainly has the martyrdom complex to
go with it…
Because of the way investments work, she’d
have to make a full time job of spending money
to spend it fast enough to actually make a
dent in her bank account.
As long as she doesn’t go buying up any
social media platforms, her personal equity
will grow — even without any deliberate
efforts to help it along.
Barring the complete dissolution of society
and abandonment of all major currencies, she’s
(likely) going to be richer than everyone
watching this video combined… forever.
For any exceptions to that statement, the
link to my Patreon can be found below.]
There is no changing that.
Boycotting a game or a movie or eventual TV
show will never hurt her bank balance.
Not in any significant way.
And certainly not in a way that matters to
her.
Even though Fantastic Beasts BOMBED, she’s
almost entirely unbothered.
The failure of the movies has not seemed to
affect or soften her stance on social issues.
Even if she financed an entire harry potter
movie HERSELF, whether it succeeds or not,
won’t change her spending (or hoarding)
of power.
Money seems to matter LESS to her than this
platform.
Media boycotts never work.
I’ve seen boycotts against Brokeback Mountain
because it was gay, Star Wars because it had
a black male lead and a female co-lead (This
is when we thought john boyega would actually
be a Jedi).
People boycotted Captain Marvel because…
powerful women, and Beauty and the Beast for
having two gays spin in a circle for a few
frames.
But all of those movies made a fortune.
People have boycotted video games for being
racist, sexist, homophobic, you name it.
But the games still go on to make a ton of
money for the studios.
There is no guarantee that a problem created
by capitalism can be solved… with more capitalism.
And choosing to withhold your financial support
for various services or goods for whatever
reason is still…
capitalism.
Boycotts are risky.
Very risky.
A boycott would hurt an independant caffe.
It would not — and has not — and will
not — hurt Starbucks.
For all the people you may get invested into
your boycott, a corporation has the capital
to launch a larger propaganda campaign to
peel ENOUGH people away from the boycott to
dismiss the loss of a handful of customers.
But especially because corporations aim to
reach as wide an audience as possible, a handful
of boycotters won’t make a difference.
As it stopped neither the Force Awakens nor
Captain Marvel from being mega hits.
In fact, especially in the latter case, it
can be argued that boycotts can risk the opposite
effect happening.
Why did Captain Marvel make so MUCH more money
than Wonder Woman, when there was nobody particularly
boycotting DC’s effort?
Boycotts call to attention that somebody wants
this thing to fail.
Which then pushes a lot of people who were
on the fence about something, to support it
out of spite.
Not to mention the free publicity that comes
from news coverage.
And then, not only does the thing you wanted
to fail do terribly well, but the creators
get to feel confident in their invulnerability.
Just as Captain Marvel memes made a point
of drinking ‘male tears’, those of us
who supported the movie’s success established
the language that is used against us.
They are now drinking ‘leftist tears.’
Yes, it really is THAT kind of playground
politics.
We really are just a bunch of 8th-graders,
after all.
They’re humiliated when we drink their tears,
so they try extra hard to humiliate us by
drinking our tears.
Which means we try even harder to humiliate
them, which means they try even harder to
humiliate us back.
It just goes around in circles.
It ends up being that the point isn’t to
actually…
do anything — it just becomes about OWNING
the other group.
Which is how you end up with a bunch of people
who drop a cool $500 on buying multiple copies
of Hogwarts Legacy JUST to “own the libs,”
and not because they actually care about Harry
Potter or know anything to do with the debate.
It just becomes this peevish complex to ‘win.’
And this is a prize worth nothing anyway.
These little ‘victories’ mean nothing
and signify nothing — because the Billion
Dollars Captain Marvel made certainly didn’t
indicate any good omens about the conditions
of women's rights in America, did it?
These culture wars using capitalism as a proxy
don’t — actually — mean the things we
want them to mean.
Because support of Hogwarts Legacy itself
was a bit of a proxy.
Before people even knew about the problematic
plot which amounts to heroically shutting
down a revolution in Scotland — people were
taking sides on a picket line over Rowlings’
then-recent descent into TERFism.
But what would have happened if the boycott
had worked?
Would the world have turned around and said:
“well I guess trans people DO deserve rights?”
People would stick their heels even deeper
in the mud.
JK Rowling broadens her scope of attack to
blame Trans People or the whole LGBT community
for targeting her video game for children.
And then the news runs with ‘think of the
poor developers’, regardless of how many
of them got laid off the minute the game hit
shelves.
British Media especially would run story after
story.
Rowling would book interview after interview.
Something…
something… taking away freedom…
something, something.
She doesn’t want the money.
She doesn’t need it.
She wants trans people groveling for her and
her supporters.
She wants to see trans influencers announce
their ‘breaks’ from twitter because her
cult of simps have made their online lives
a living hell.
For all Joanne has complained about death
threats, she never seemed to feel inclined
to take a break from her social media, yet
she has this delight of sending out follower
hits on trans advocates and random internet
personalities.
I’m no psychologist, but this does not seem
like the mental profile of someone who will
rationally adjust their thinking because the
public spoke to her via the free market.
The problem with the boycott is that it was
framed by many as a direct message to Rowling.
This resulted in a large number of people
who either rationalized their pre-emptive
support for the game cynically — by reasoning
that it wouldn’t actually affect Rowling
so it wouldn’t matter.
Or people who felt that they could ‘offset’
their support for the game by donating to
a “trans charity.”
This isn’t the carbon footprint of morality.
You don’t get to net zero out by donating
money to relief against the thing you are
giving money to that hurts the people you’re
donating money to protect.
The result of this boycott should have been
to indicate a gesture of Trans solidarity.
Not just SUPPORT, not throwing $60 at trans
life line to make up for the $60 you spent
at GameStop— solidarity.
Because, let’s face it, the world doesn’t
happen on Twitter and most people still don’t
even really know that JK Rowling is a bigot,
because their frame of reference is what the
BBC says about her.
So pledging NOT to buy the game would have
been to a gesture to trans people to show
who they can or cannot trust.
There are hundreds of video games that come
out every month — most of which are better
than this one.
You could demonstrate that respecting trans
identities is more important than playing
a video game.
Instead, the drive for instant gratification
to give your support a cheat day left many
trans people feeling voiceless and questioning
their allies.
If ever there was an ‘ask’ from trans
people — for you to do something about how
YOU live, rather than how you treat others…
this was it.
And in reality — THIS is what a successful
boycott would have accomplished.
It wouldn’t have bankrupted Rowling, it
wouldn't have killed the Harry Potter brand,
but it would have shown trans folks that the
people in their lives care more about them
than a video game.
And by all means, Hogwarts Legacy demonstrated
that this was the ‘last straw’ for more
than a few fairweather friends who decided
that being an ally was too much work.
And quite frankly, it’s better to know who
they are now.
And that is where we should have expectations
for what a boycott — or any boycott — should
accomplish.
A judge of character, and often a very public
one.
But expecting this to do anything meaningful
about de-platforming a bigot was unrealistic.
So what do we do about HER, then?
We can do what we can to stop bigoted platforms
from growing, but what do we do about this
one particular lady?
There is an option left, but it takes a lot
more work than just tweeting about a video
game, accidentally helping it to trend on
Twitter.
A lot more work.
She needs to be made irrelevant.
Now, she’ll always have clout as the creator
of Harry Potter.
There is no taking that away from her.
But why does Harry Potter have to be something
that can keep her relevant in a socio-political
light Forever?
Why can’t it just be another book series
on the shelf?
Or another bunch of movies people watch once
and a while?
Of course the best way to do this would be
to lift up another author, preferably an out
and proud queer author or at least a vocal
ally, who is writing foundational literature
for children and young adults.
Foundational literature is a collection of
books and stories that we read, or are told
as we grow up.
(I already made a video about this, but as
Rowling’s been slipping deeper into alt-right
rhetoric, I’ve adjusted my take.)
These are the stories that help you develop
your sense of self, of right and wrong — these
bits of media are part of the experiences
which shape your fundamentally guiding values.
This is why Children’s literature is so
important, and why people fuss over Rhol Dahl
and Rojard Kipping.
For instance, the guy who coined the term:
“white man’s burden” is probably not
someone you should let into your kid’s head.
These creators are literally there to help
you instill morals into children's heads and
futures.
Typically, this type of literature is open
minded, and welcoming to people who aren’t
just like you.
Harry Potter seemed to have that aspect, since
mudbloods were heavily discriminated against,
and even murdered, by the fascists of Rowling’s
world.
But even though they were a minority among
wizards, good pure blood wizards still accepted
them.
And so we as children read that as it being
important to accept people no matter their
background.
As long as they’re good people.
We missed the stuff about Seamus and Cho Chang
and The Goblins and such because we were kids.
But unlike a lot of foundational literature,
which is usually focused on child readers,
the Harry Potter books ostensibly grew up
with us.
The characters aged and developed, the themes
became darker, and so… many of us never
grew out of the books during publication.
They followed us into adulthood.
I personally had the perfect timing because
the final book was released less than a month
after I graduated from high school.
So I was the perfect age to grow up with the
books.
Which is why I clung onto Hogwarts for deal
life as a safe place for me for so long.
So that’s the kind of foundational literature
that we need to promote and get in the hands
of as many young readers as humanly possible.
But it can’t be super disparate.
Every kid can’t have their own series because
then the societal connection doesn’t develop.
They all need to go to the same book.
Just like with Harry Potter.
You know it's interesting how my generation
grew up with Harry Potter and then came of
age with The Hunger Games and now we’re
a bunch of open minded, pretty accepting weirdos
who want to eat the rich.
Anyway, can we do that?
Can we force a single series of books to become
a global sensation like that?
Is there one already out there with one or
two books, or has it yet to be written?
And don’t tell me Animorphs or Percy Jackson.
They’ve finished their run six times over
by now so there’s no waiting two or three
years to find out what happens next.
This needs to be new.
Something everyone can gather around and wait
for midnight book launches.
It needs to be like an HBO show only for kids.
It doesn’t have to SELL like Harry Potter,
and it can even be something like a TV show,
if any network would let a show go past three
or four seasons these days.
The important part is that the youthful characters
need to grow up with their audience.
Stranger Things kind of fit the bill, to be
honest, but I think it starts off too dark
to get pre-teens on board.
Or at least for their parents to let them
watch it.
But that just shows that it's possible.
Replace Harry Potter’s social importance
with something else.
But the other way to make her more or less
irrelevant to the wider discussion is something
we have no control over.
But profit-driven movie executives do.
In 1998 Warner Bros purchased the film rights
to the Harry Potter books, and today they
even share ownership of the “JK Rowling’s
Wizarding World” as a whole brand.
If you’ve been following entertainment industry
news the last few years, you’ll know Warner
Bros has been past around like a party bottoms
in Hollywood.
First Time Warner owned them, then AT&T owned
them, Now Discovery owns them, and according
to people in the know, Discovery plans on
selling Warner Bros to Universal Pictures
in 2024.
Which is why Warner Bros has been such a mess
lately.
They haven't had solid leadership for over
a decade.
So in 2024 when Universal buys Warner Bros,
they’re also buying their stake in The Wizarding
World.
They’ve seen what’s happened to ticket
sales for Wizarding World movies since Joanne
went full TERF, so it's easy to see that her
connection with the franchise is an Albatross
around its neck.
So they could offer to buy the franchise from
her wholesale.
Now the evaluated worth of the Harry Potter
brand is about 26 billion dollars.
That includes potential income from the brand
in the future though, assuming Rowling’s
presence won’t hurt the brand.
Remember, Avalanche went out of their way
to say that she had nothing to do with Hogwarts
Legacy, which has been how many people defended
their purchase of the game.
The last release she was directly attached
to the The Secrets of Dumbledore movie, which
bombed so badly it convinced Warner Bros to
kill the franchise right there, even though
they’d signed a deal for seven movies.
That’s just how much money they lost on
that thing.
I think Universal plans on buying out the
brand.
They will be buying Warner’s stake in it,
so there’s already a discount.
Universal also stands to lose a lot of money
if Rowling goes too far off the deep end for
mainstream audiences to come up with excuses
anymore.
So buying her out would be a smart move.
And they wouldn’t even be paying full price
because a lot of the worth of the franchise
is tied up in publishing deals, toy deals,
apparel, Universal’s own Wizarding World
park.
And as long as they continue the ongoing contracts,
they wouldn’t need to buy them out, so they’d
get it for much much less than 26 billion.
Jesus.
26 billion is like… a theoretical number
for me and someone has it on their bank balance.
Eat the rich, kids.
There are two ways of take social power from
her.
We’ll never take her money away.
She’ll never be *not rich,* but we can make
it that her opinions don’t really matter
anymore.
If she’s just some rich person living in
a castle of all things, who the hell cares
what she thinks?
TERFS will, of course, and they’ll still
flock to her like some cult leader, but if
she no longer owns Harry Potter, or Harry
Potter is no longer relevant because another
formative piece of literature has superseded
it, then mainstream people will kind of forget
that she exists.
They have short memories, those people who
live lives and do things other than live on
Twitter.
Now we can’t influence Universal buying
the franchise.
But we CAN do option #1.
We CAN push another piece of media to the
prominence required to overtake Harry Potter.
It can be a movie series, or a tv series,
but its best if its a book series.
They tend to have more longevity.
And People connect more with books because
they can imagine the world in their own head
instead of just seeing what a director, cinematographer,
and set designer want them to see.
We can reduce her influence on the world.
Where once she spoke out loudly in favor of
social justice, she now works with people
fighting hard to condemn some of the most
endangered people among us.
People who might be risking their lives just
by leaving their house, she and her friends
target them.
She has become the exact kind of villainous
bully we spent our childhoods reading her
heroes triumph over.
She was to be remembered as the woman who
made a generation of kids want to read.
Who told movie goers and readers around the
world that accepting people for being different
amounts to being a good person.
She created a world in which everyone felt
safe.
No matter your race, or skin color, or religious
belief, or your gender, or who you loved.
She had created a legacy of not just tolerance,
but acceptance.
But now she’s tarnished it in the minds
of millions.
And as long as she controls it, Hogwarts won’t
feel safe for those people anymore.
And she did that.
With her ignorance, intolerance, and belligerent
rhetoric, she’s made Hogwarts unsafe.
And now that’s the real Hogwarts legacy.